Add kb articles for september. (#945)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/datagrid-selection-column.md

---
title: Implement Selection Column for DataGrid
description: Learn how to add a selection column to the DataGrid in .NET MAUI so the user can select the entire row using or select all rows.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Create a Selection Column For Row selection in the RadDataGrid for .NET MAUI
slug: datagrid-selection-column
tags: datagrid, .net maui, selection, row, checkbox
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author | 
| --- | --- | ---- | 
| 7.1.0 | Telerik UI for .NET MAUI DataGrid | [Dobrinka Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/dobrinka-yordanova)| 

## Description

> In a .NET MAUI application, you want to select the row in the DataGrid through a column and select all rows from the header of this column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a .NET MAUI application, you may want to select a DataGrid row through a column or all grid rows from the header of this column.
```

## Solution

> To implement such column and to avoid the usage of the templates, you have to use the [CellRenderer]({%slug datagrid-render-mode%}) approach. This approach uses SkiaSharp to draw the elements inside the DataGrid cell. For the scenario we are going to use a `DataGridBooleanColumn` with a Skia `CellRenderer`. The cell renderer will draw a checkbox element in the cell. Here is the approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement such a column and to avoid the usage of the templates, use the [Cell Renderer]({%slug datagrid-render-mode%}) approach. This approach uses SkiaSharp to draw the elements inside the DataGrid cell. In such scenarios, use a `DataGridBooleanColumn` with a Skia `CellRenderer`. The cell renderer will draw a checkbox element in the cell.

Here is the implementation:
```

> **1.** Draw a `CheckBox` using the `CellRenderer` approach. 

Reviewer: Add blank lines between the lines, otherwise, all list items get rendered as a single line:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7b2c989-3d17-47d3-af62-6f18cbba586c)

>     **1.1** Create a custom class `CheckboxColumnRenderer` that inherits from `DataGridCellRenderer`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    **1.1** Create a custom `CheckboxColumnRenderer` class that inherits from `DataGridCellRenderer`. 
    
```

        paint.Color = SKColors.Black;
        paint.StrokeWidth = 2;
        skRenderContext.Canvas.DrawRect(skiaRect, paint);

        if (isChecked)
        {
            // checkmark
            using var checkMarkPaint = new SKPaint();
            checkMarkPaint.Style = SKPaintStyle.Stroke;
            checkMarkPaint.Color = SKColors.Black;
            checkMarkPaint.StrokeWidth = 2;

            var path = new SKPath();
            path.MoveTo(skiaRect.Left + 4, skiaRect.MidY);
            path.LineTo(skiaRect.MidX, skiaRect.Bottom - 4);
            path.LineTo(skiaRect.Right - 4, skiaRect.Top + 4);
            skRenderContext.Canvas.DrawPath(path, checkMarkPaint);
        }
    }

    internal static class SkiaUtils
    {
        public static SKRect ToSKRect(Rect rect, double scale = 1)
        {
            return new SKRect((float)(scale * rect.Left), (float)(scale * rect.Top), (float)(scale * rect.Right), (float)(scale * rect.Bottom));
        }

        public static Rect ToRect(SKRect skRect, double scale = 1)
        {
            return new Rect(scale * skRect.Left, scale * skRect.Top, scale * skRect.Right, scale * skRect.Bottom);
        }
    }
}
```

> **2.** In the XAML set the custom class `CheckboxColumnCellRenderer` to the `DataGridBooleanColumn.CellRenderer` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2.** In the XAML, set the custom `CheckboxColumnCellRenderer` class to the `DataGridBooleanColumn.CellRenderer` property:
```

                    <DataTemplate>
                        <Grid>
                            <telerik:RadCheckBox IsChecked="{Binding BindingContext.AreAllItemsChecked, Mode=TwoWay, Source={x:Reference EmployeesGrid}}"
                                                    CornerRadius="0"
                                                    StrokeWidth="2"
                                                    CheckedColor="Black"
                                                    Margin="5,0,0,0"
                                                    HeightRequest="30"
                                                    WidthRequest="30" />
                        </Grid>
                    </DataTemplate>
                </telerik:DataGridBooleanColumn.HeaderContentTemplate>
            </telerik:DataGridBooleanColumn>
            <telerik:DataGridTextColumn PropertyName="Name"
                                        HeaderText="Name" />
            <telerik:DataGridNumericalColumn PropertyName="Position"
                                                HeaderText="Position" />
        </telerik:RadDataGrid.Columns>
    </telerik:RadDataGrid>
</Grid>
```

> **3.** Add sample data model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**3.** Add a sample data model:
```

    public EmployeeDto(Employee source)
    {
        this.Name = source.Name;
        this.Position = source.Position;
        this.Salary = source.Salary;
        this.StartDate = source.StartDate;
        this.VacationTotal = source.VacationTotal;
        this.VacationUsed = source.VacationUsed;
    }

    public bool OnLeave
    {
        get => onLeave;
        set => SetProperty(ref onLeave, value);
    }
}
```

**4.** Add the `ViewModel`:

```C#
public class MainViewModel : ViewModelBase
{
    private ObservableRangeCollection<EmployeeDto> employees;

    public MainViewModel()
    {
        Employees = new ObservableRangeCollection<EmployeeDto>(SampleDataService.Current.GenerateEmployeeData()
            .Select(e => new EmployeeDto(e))
            .Take(40));
    }

    public ObservableRangeCollection<EmployeeDto> Employees
    {
        get => employees;
        set => SetProperty(ref employees, value);
    }

    public bool AreAllItemsChecked
    {
        get => Employees.All(e => e.OnLeave);
        set
        {
            foreach (var employeeDto in Employees) 
                employeeDto.OnLeave = value;
        }
    }
}
```

This is the result:

> ![.NET MAUI DataGrid Selection Column](images/datagrid-selection-column.png)

Reviewer: Add a See Also section with relevant articles.
